[Music]
anybody who's boarded a plane knows the
feeling after you find your seat put
your stuff in the overhead Locker and
sit down your mind now recovering from
the hustle and bustle of getting to the
airport and through security to find
your game apprehension starts to creep
in you try to push it away convince
yourself that thousands of planes fly
every single day nothing will go wrong
it's just a routine flight relax and
that's right your odds of being in some
air catastrophe are 1 in 11 million but
these things do happen like the story of
or an air flight 554 so buckle up it's
going to be well you know how the saying
goes the Russian airliner was departing
from Punta Cana in the Dominican
Republic and heading to Moscow this was
a routine 12 hour direct flight full of
happy tanned Russian tourists who I
imagine had just had the time of their
lives on a long awaited sunny beach
vacation in escape of the cold February
weather back home
there were 351 passengers on board along
with 20 crew members at around 6 p.m.
local time after the pilots had done all
the necessary inspections and checks the
huge Boeing 777 was ready for takeoff
it accelerated down the runway the
wheels left the ground and the plane
began its ascent everything was going
smoothly people were either chatting
listening to music or closing their eyes
to get some rest after all they had a
long flight ahead of them might as well
spend some of those 12 hours snoozing
well turns out the flight wasn't quite
as long as it should have been just 15
minutes after their successful takeoff
the pilots noticed that the plane
stopped climbing at 12,000 feet it just
wouldn't go any higher to the 31,000
feet of altitude that it needed before
the cockpit even had time to notify
air-traffic control about
altitude issue a loud clap was heard
throughout the cabin then the plane
started to descend about 1,000 feet
passengers had heard the bang and felt
the plane start to fall but they didn't
really know what was going on
most figured the jet was hitting a
little turbulence those are the things
we tell ourselves to shoo away the
rising sense of panic right nothing's
wrong it's routine relax
they carried on with their quiet flight
but that didn't last long a couple of
minutes later everyone was startled by
the sound of metal screeching there was
no denying it now something was
definitely wrong and this wasn't your
run-of-the-mill turbulence everyone in
the cabin got uneasy what's going on
what's that sound is everything okay
not even a minute had gone by when thick
black smoke started to puff out of the
left wing that's when it became clear
where there's smoke there's fire
and that left engine was in flames in
the flight deck the engine failure alarm
was already going off and the cabin was
now starting to fill up with smoke
captain konstantin pero cosas and
copilot igor Crofts takeoff had to
decide within seconds on what they
should do next in such dire situations
there are certain safety protocols that
need to be followed
in order to keep everyone safe pilots
and crew don't panic they act so first
the pilots contacted air traffic control
switch the flaming engine off and turn
the plane around and headed back to put
tukana
for an emergency landing as for the
cabin crew they made sure to keep
everyone calm and prevent panic from
ensuing now the biggest problem in this
situation other than you know the plane
being on fire
was that since they'd only been in the
air for 20 minutes or so the Boeing 777
was still full of fuel and lots of it
with 80 tons in the tanks
the huge jet had been filled up to make
the 12-hour transatlantic flight all
this means that the risks for the
emergency lane
were sky high the plane was too heavy so
the danger was that it would hit the
ground too hard and ignite that jet fuel
but a skilled pilot can land a plane
smoothly even if it's too heavy and thus
harder to glide down smoothly however
there's another problem when it comes to
landing overweight planes you see the
heavier a plane is the faster it's going
when it touches the ground since all
that mass has more momentum so it'll
require more braking which leads to more
friction and heat being created likely
resulting in the landing gear catching
on fire put two and two together and you
quickly understand that fire plus a full
tank of jet fuel isn't a good
combination this kind of emergency
landing could end with a plane exploding
plus they already had a fire in the left
engine and to make matters even worse I
know I also thought it couldn't get any
more catastrophic even if they still
managed to land without overheating the
brakes or setting all that fuel ablaze
they still ran the risk of overshooting
the runway because the plane needed more
distance to come to a full stop with
such a high speed and more weight so as
you can see the odds of performing a
safe landing were stacked against them
normally if a plane with a full tank
needs to make an emergency landing it
will circle the airspace over the
airport several times to burn enough
fuel to reach a safe landing weight this
is called fuel dumping in the aviation
sphere and it works well since planes
use up more fuel at lower altitudes
even with one working engine that would
have been an option had the other
turbine not been on fire but the real
sense of emergency came when the cabin
started to fill a smoke that meant the
passengers and crew members lives were
at risk right now the pilots had no
other choice they needed to get this jet
on the ground and fast even if it was
severely overweight and the chances of
success were slim to none
the pilots had to act quickly so that
meant landing with their fuel tanks full
the crew was mentally prepared for the
worst but they would let all those
passengers recognize it they kept their
professionalism and were prepared to do
the best they could to land the plane
safely with everyone on board calm and
unharmed the Boeing began to descend
while the turbine was still on fire
the captain and co-pilot turned the AC
off as well as the ventilation to avoid
overloading the engine any more than it
already was then came the landing they
were indeed going too fast they needed
to brake not harshly the brakes
overheated and the wheels did catch on
fire but the pilots were prepared for
that because like I said that's what
happens when you land an overweight jet
especially one of this size while
landing the engine fire had stopped for
a moment but once the plane made a full
stop it started up again this time even
but what happened next was a true
miracle the plane managed to come to a
full and smooth stop without running out
of runway immediately after that the
emergency evacuation started people were
strictly instructed to leave their
belongings because this plane could
explode at any minute
one by one all passengers and crew
members got off the plane using the
inflatable slides the runway had already
been closed to prepare for the planes
emergency landing and probably for the
worst-case scenario aircraft rescuers as
well as fire fighters were already at
the scene trying to put out the fires
miraculously all 351 passengers got off
the plane safely without any injuries
the crew then followed and right there
on the spot the planes crew was met with
applause not only did they managed to
land the plan safely well all the odds
were against them but they saved 371
lives professionally and efficiently
after the landing aircraft engineers
carried out all the necessary
inspections and found out that the fire
was caused by an engine failure on the
11-year old plane but pilot error was
not the cause here captain para cosa had
done all the necessary safety
inspections and examined the plane
himself before taking off and it
appeared that everything was working
just fine the chances of a problem
popping up like that and an engine
failing during a flight are extremely
low but it does happen not long after
the heroic landing captain konstantin
para cosa and co-pilot igor cross tick
off were awarded the order of courage
for handling the situation so skillfully
and saving everyone's lives some
passengers involved have even admitted
that they call february 10th 2016 their
second birthday yeah I'd probably feel
like I'd been given a new life too so
bright ciders do you know any other
stories about amazing pilot landings
please share them down in the comments
and if you've learned something new
today then give this video a like and
share it with your friends butthey now
don't take off just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you have to do is pick
the left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life